Function pause guide (#866)
inngest/website: pages/docs/guides/pause-functions.mdx

export const description = 'Learn how to pause an Inngest function.'

# Pausing functions

> Inngest allows you to pause a function indefinitely. This is a powerful feature that can be useful if you are planning downtime for a database migration, for example, or if a user reports a bug and you want to stop processing events until you've fixed it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Inngest allows you to pause a function indefinitely. This is a powerful feature that can be useful, for example, if you are planning downtime for a database migration or if a user reports a bug and you want to stop processing events until you've fixed it.
```

the mid-sentence "for example" sounds conversational

Reviewer: Also: _technically_, the function can be paused indefinitely, but does the plan tier impact it?

Author: ✅ Clarified in 5feaae19a167fb694d2e3e0d5cf373d30be01c19.

## When a function is paused

It's important to understand what happens when a function is paused.

> **No data will be lost.** Inngest will continue receiving and storing your events, but the events won't trigger the paused function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**No data will be lost.** Inngest will continue receiving and storing your events, but the events will not trigger the paused function.
```

**You can resume the function at any time.** No deployment or sync is required to un-pause your function.

> **Events received while the function was paused won't be reprocessed automatically** after you resume the function. You can use a [replay](/docs/platform/replay) to process events that were received while the function was paused.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Events received while the function was paused will not be reprocessed automatically** after you resume the function. Use [Replay](/docs/platform/replay) to process events that were received while the function was paused.
```

We capitalize it elsewhere

## How to pause a function

Navigate to the function's page in Inngest Cloud, and click the Pause button near the top right corner:

![Pause button in Inngest Cloud.](/assets/docs/guides/pause-functions/pause-btn.png)

## Handling running invocations

When you pause a function, you can choose how any currently-running invocations of that function should be handled:

> - "Pause immediately, then cancel after 7 days:" This is the default behavior. No further steps will be executed while the function is paused. If you resume the function within 7 days, these invocations will continue with the next step. Otherwise, they'll be cancelled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **"Pause immediately, then cancel after 7 days:"** This is the default behavior. No further steps will be executed while the function is paused. If you resume the function within 7 days, these invocations will continue with the next step. Otherwise, they will be cancelled.
```

> - "Cancel immediately:" All currently-running invocations of the function will be cancelled. They do not continue running or restart when you resume the function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **"Cancel immediately:"** All currently-running invocations of the function will be cancelled. They do not continue running or restart when you resume the function.
```

> In both cases, all currently-running functions invocations are allowed to complete whatever step they're currently running.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In both cases, all currently-running function invocations are allowed to complete whatever step they are currently running.
```

Reviewer: Also: are they allowed or will they complete? Is there some way to control that?

Author: Good point. I’ll update this in a few minutes to clarify that.

Author: ✅ Clarified in c99ea9d7fbc9f9f9695de0d58263d725d2609d28.

![Options for handling running invocations when pausing a function.](/assets/docs/guides/pause-functions/pause-modal.png)

## Viewing skipped function triggers

> On an individual event's page in Inngest Cloud, you can see skipped function triggers in the right sidebar. This shows you what functions the event would have triggered and explains that the function was skipped because it was paused:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can see skipped function triggers in the right sidebar of the individual event's page in Inngest Cloud. This shows you what functions the event would have triggered and explains that the function was skipped because it was paused:
```

First what, then where (unless "where" is the element that people get wrong)

![The event page shows skipped and triggered functions.](/assets/docs/guides/pause-functions/event-page.png)

## Resuming a function

To resume a paused function, navigate to the function's page in Inngest Cloud, and click the Resume button near the top right corner:

![Resume button in Inngest Cloud.](/assets/docs/guides/pause-functions/resume-btn.png)

## Replaying skipped events

> After resuming a paused function, you may wish to replay the runs for that function that would otherwise have run while it was paused. Navigate to the function's Replay tab and click the New Replay button to create a new replay. Select an appropriate date window and enable the "Skipped" status. You'll see a preview of the number of runs to be replayed:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After resuming a paused function, you may wish to replay the runs for that function that would otherwise have run while it was paused.  To do so:

1. Navigate to the function's Replay tab.
2. Click the New Replay button to create a new replay.
3. Select an appropriate date window and enable the "Skipped" status.

You'll see a preview of the number of runs to be replayed:
```

Easier to follow steps than a paragraph.

![Creating a replay for skipped function runs.](/assets/docs/guides/pause-functions/replay-modal.png)

> See our guide on [replays](/docs/platform/replay) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See our [Replay guide](/docs/platform/replay) for more information.
```

**Paused functions do not count toward your plan's concurrency limit.** Note that events received while a function is paused are still subject to your plan's history limit.

## How to pause a function

Navigate to the function's page in Inngest Cloud, and click the Pause button near the top right corner:

![Pause button in Inngest Cloud.](/assets/docs/guides/pause-functions/pause-btn.png)

### Handling running invocations

When you pause a function, no new events will trigger it. You can choose what to do with any currently-running invocations of the function:

- **"Pause immediately, then cancel after 7 days:"** No further steps will be executed while the function is paused. If you resume the function within 7 days, these invocations will continue with the next step. Otherwise, they will be canceled. (This is the default behavior.)
- **"Cancel immediately:"** All currently-running invocations of the function will be canceled. They will not continue running or restart when you resume the function.

> In both cases, all running invocations will complete whatever step they are currently running before being paused or canceled; Inngest cannot interrupt your function mid-step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In both cases, all running invocations will complete their current step before being paused or canceled. Inngest cannot interrupt your function mid-step.
```

I thought to make this paragraph a little bit more concise, see if it works for you!
